[Excel] (keyboard shortcuts) Document support in the unified app manifest (#4678)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/design/keyboard-shortcuts.md

Keyboard shortcuts are currently only supported in **Excel** and only in these platforms and builds:

- Excel on the web
- Excel on Windows: Version 2102 (Build 13801.20632) and later
- Excel on Mac: Version 16.48 and later

## Configure the manifest to use a shared runtime

To customize keyboard shortcuts for your add-in, you must first configure the add-in manifest to use a [shared runtime](../testing/runtimes.md#shared-runtime). Select the tab for the type of manifest you're using.

# [Unified app manifest for Microsoft 365](#tab/jsonmanifest)

> [!NOTE]
> Implementing keyboard shortcuts with the unified app manifest for Microsoft 365 is in public developer preview. It's currently only available in **Excel**. This shouldn't be used in production add-ins. We invite you to try it out in test or development environments. For more information, see the [Public developer preview app manifest schema](/microsoftteams/platform/resources/schema/manifest-schema-dev-preview).

1. In your add-in project, open the **manifest.json** file.
1. Add the following object to the "extensions.runtimes" array. Note the following about this markup.

>     - The SharedRuntime 1.1 requirement set is specified in the "requirements.capabilities" object. This is required to support custom keyboard shortcuts.

Reviewer: We should delete this bullet. I'll send email. Too complicated to explain in a comment.

Author: Deleted.

    - While the "actions.displayName" property is optional, it's required if a custom keyboard shortcut will be created for the action. This property is used to describe the action of a keyboard shortcut. The description you provide appears in the dialog that's shown to a user when there's a shortcut conflict between multiple add-ins or with Microsoft 365. It's a good practice to include the name of the add-in in the property, so that the user can easily identify to which add-in the action belongs. For more information on how conflicts with keyboard shortcuts are handled, see [Avoid key combinations in use by other add-ins](#avoid-key-combinations-in-use-by-other-add-ins).

    ```json
    "runtimes": [
        {
            "requirements": {
                "capabilities": [
                    {
                        "name": "SharedRuntime",
                        "minVersion": "1.1"
                    }
                ]

>             },

Reviewer: We should delete this "requirements" property. I'll explain in email.

Author: Deleted.

                },
                "actionId": "ShowTaskpane"
            },
            {
                "key": {
                    "default": "Ctrl+Alt+Down",
                    "mac": "Command+Shift+Down",
                    "web": "Ctrl+Alt+2",
                    "windows": "Ctrl+Alt+Up"
                },
                "actionId": "HideTaskpane"
            }
        ]
    }
]
```

# [XML manifest](#tab/xmlmanifest)

### Create or edit the shortcuts JSON file

If your add-in uses an XML manifest, custom keyboard shortcuts are defined in a JSON file. This file describes your keyboard shortcuts and the actions that they'll invoke. The complete schema for the JSON file is at [extended-manifest.schema.json](https://developer.microsoft.com/json-schemas/office-js/extended-manifest.schema.json).

1. In your add-in project, create a JSON file.
1. Add the following markup to the file. Note the following about the code.

    - The "actions" array contains objects that define the actions to be invoked. The "actions.id" and "actions.name" properties are required.
    - The "actions.id" property uniquely identifies the action to invoke using a keyboard shortcut.

>     - The "actions.name" property must describe the action of a keyboard shortcut. The description you provide appears in the dialog that's shown to a user when there's a shortcut conflict between multiple add-ins or with Microsoft 365. It's a good practice to include the name of the add-in in the property, so that the user can easily identify to which add-in the action belongs. For more information on how conflicts with keyboard shortcuts are handled, see [Avoid key combinations in use by other add-ins](#avoid-key-combinations-in-use-by-other-add-ins).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - The "actions.name" property must describe the action of a keyboard shortcut. The description you provide appears in the dialog that's shown to a user when there's a shortcut conflict between multiple add-ins or with Microsoft 365. Office appends the name of the add-in in parentheses at the end of the description. For more information on how conflicts with keyboard shortcuts are handled, see [Avoid key combinations in use by other add-ins](#avoid-key-combinations-in-use-by-other-add-ins).
```

    - The "shortcuts" array contains objects that map key combinations to actions. The "shortcuts.action", "shortcuts.key", and "shortcuts.key.default" properties are required.
    - The value of the "shortcuts.action" property must match the "actions.id" property of the applicable action object.
    - It's possible to customize shortcuts to be platform-specific. In the example, the `shortcuts` object customizes shortcuts for each of the following platforms: `windows`, `mac`, `web`. You must define a `default` shortcut key for each shortcut. This is used as a fallback key if a key combination isn't specified for a particular platform.

    > [!TIP]
    > For guidance on how to create custom key combinations, see [Guidelines for custom key combinations](#guidelines-for-custom-key-combinations).

    ```json
    {
        "actions": [
            {
                "id": "ShowTaskpane",
                "type": "ExecuteFunction",
                "name": "Show task pane (Contoso Add-in)"
            },
            {
                "id": "HideTaskpane",
                "type": "ExecuteFunction",

>                 "name": "Hide task pane (Contoso Add-in)"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                "name": "Hide task pane"
```

            .then(() => {
                return;
            })
            .catch((error) => {
                return error.code;
            });
    });
    ```

    ```javascript
    Office.actions.associate("HideTaskpane", () => {
        return Office.addin.hide()
            .then(() => {
                return;
            })
            .catch((error) => {
                return error.code;
            });
    });
    ```

## Guidelines for custom key combinations

Use the following guidelines to create custom key combinations for your add-ins.

- A keyboard shortcut must include at least one modifier key (Alt/Option, Ctrl/Command, Shift) and only one other key. These keys must be joined with a `+` character.
- The Command modifier key is supported on the macOS platform.
- On macOS, the Alt key is mapped to the Option key. On Windows, the Command key is mapped to the Ctrl key.
- The Shift key can't be used as the only modifier key. It must be combined with either Alt/Option or Ctrl/Command.
- Key combinations can include characters "A-Z", "a-z", "0-9", and the punctuation marks "-", "_", and "+". By convention, lowercase letters aren't used in keyboard shortcuts.

> - When two characters are linked to the same physical key on a standard keyboard, then they're synonyms in a custom keyboard shortcut. For example, Alt+a and Alt+A are the same shortcut, as well as Ctrl+- and Ctrl+\_ ("-" and "_" are the linked to the same physical key).

Reviewer: Is the `\` in `Ctrl+\_` a typo?

Author: No. It's needed to escape the underscore.

## Localize the description of a keyboard shortcut

You may need to localize your custom keyboard shortcuts in the following scenarios.

- Your add-in supports multiple locales.
- Your add-in supports different alphabets, writing systems, or keyboard layouts.

Guidance on how to localize your keyboard shortcuts varies depending on the type of manifest your add-in uses.

# [Unified app manifest for Microsoft 365](#tab/jsonmanifest)

To learn how to localize your custom keyboard shortcuts with the unified app manifest for Microsoft 365, see [Localize strings in your app manifest](/microsoftteams/platform/concepts/build-and-test/apps-localization).

# [XML manifest](#tab/xmlmanifest)

Use the `ResourceUrl` attribute of the [ExtendedOverrides](/javascript/api/manifest/extendedoverrides) element to point Microsoft 365 to a file of localized resources. The following is an example.

```xml
    ...
    </VersionOverrides>  
    <ExtendedOverrides Url="https://contoso.com/addin/extended-overrides.json" 
                       ResourceUrl="https://contoso.com/addin/my-resources.json">
    </ExtendedOverrides>
</OfficeApp>
```

> The extended overrides file then uses tokens instead of strings. The tokens name strings in the resource file. The following is an example that assigns a keyboard shortcut to a function (defined elsewhere) that displays the add-in's task pane. Note about this markup:

Reviewer: This seems to be an incomplete sentence. Not sure what's meant.

"The tokens name strings in the resource file."
